Lessons learn from the Reengineering of the Fortran: Calculation of Fire Danger Subprogram


First step in reengineering the Calculation of Fire Danger Subprogram was to understand the program.
In order to understand the program, it was necessary to research the Fortran syntax.  
After getting the basic understanding of the syntax especially the IF statement (thanks for the tip giving in class),
I carefully step through the code.   I had to do this several times with the small text and small knowledge of the
Fortran software language.  The comments that within the programs were very helpful but were not consistence with 
the write up.  Also the discussions in class were very helpful.  The suggestion of using the line numbers was very 
helpfully also.  As I wrote my pseudo I place the corresponding line number next to my code.  This keep me from 
getting too lost.  

Once I completed my code and recheck it by tracing and comparing it to the Fortran code, I was ready to code in Java.
Again, I had to tackle a learning curve of re-learning Java again.  It has been a while since I have written Java 
code so I had an idea of what I wanted to do; I just needed to know how to do it in Java.  Creating arrays, 
manipulating the data into and from the array proved to be a challenge also.  So I search the internet for answers. 
I used the websites Stackoverflow and Programming Simplified and some very old text books.  I learned how to create 
a function, if statement syntax, how to pass multiple arguments using an array and the importance of the placement 
semi colons and brackets in Java.  Eclipse help a lot with this once I understood what it was trying to tell me.  
Using Eclipse was not too hard.  

I did have a problem with GitHub at first.  It took me a while to get the commit correct.  
I when online and watches a few YouTube videos to figure it out.  I still have not set up the HEAD and 
I think this is why I have to put my id and password in each time I commit.   Once I got the commit down, 
I created my branch.   The problem was not doing the commit but remembering to create a new branch to make the 
commit useful.  I did find that I got so messed up with my brackets and because I did not do my branches as often 
as I should, I had to go back to almost the beginning and reenter my code.  After this, I used branches and commits 
more frequently.  At the end I did my merge and was more comfortable with process.  In the end I was able to run 
my code and get values displayed to the console.  The last task of posting my text documents I am still working on.  
So if you do not find this in my project it will be on blackboard…Sorry  
